May God lengthen the life of my lord and master and preserve his well-being, happiness, safety, sufficiency and protection.

I am writing from Alexandria on the twelfth day of the month of Av — may God visit upon you its blessing and the blessing of all the months that follow, and may it return

for you for many years to come in which [we will witness] the rebuilding of His temple, Amen —

in a state of wellbeing and not lacking for anything — praise be to God, lord of the universe — to inform you that your letter arrived, and from it, I learned of your news and wellbeing and rejoiced very much at your (favorable) circumstances. You mentioned the matter of

the letter that Rabbi Moses left with Yūsuf al-Marjānī. I asked Yūsuf about it, and he said: "The only 

letter in my possession is the one that Ibn al-Qāsh has written." So he said to me: "Take it," and I told him I would wait for your letter to arrive (with further details).

At the moment, the only news we have from the West con­cerns the barge (qārib) that arrived, may God bring us good

news. As for the news of the bundle (rizma) that arrived labeled for Abū Saʿīd and his brother,

it was opened in the Dār Abū Rūḥ, and they found a qinṭār and 40 jarawī raṭls of wax inside. I was quite distressed

by this, because it does not bode well for the people (literally: “it is not a good beginning / omen for people”). In the middle of it, there was bundle of silk (khazz) labeled for

my lord Abū Ṣḥaq Barhūn, your partner. The wax was removed from the bundle for Abū Isḥāq

and it was repacked as it was. The elder Abū Ṣḥaq Ibrāhīm b. al-Iskandarānī then took possession of it. If a Nile boat (ushārī) arrives, 

he (Ibn al-Iskandarānī) will see that the package is loaded onto it. Whatever goods arrive for you from the luggage, I will take delivery of them and send them on to my lord Abū Ṣḥaq Barhūn.

The elder Abū l-Bishr Sulaymān is leaving tomorrow, travelling overland. I will send

the shawls with him for you, as well as the siddur (prayerbook). I have already delivered the letter to my lord the ḥazzan (cantor) Shela. I had

asked you to get 10 dīnārs for me from Abū Ṣḥaq with which to purchase a bale of flax for me. You did not

men­tion anything about this in your letter except to say that you would purchase a bale of flax for me. The letter that arrived 

for you (from the West?) with my lord Abū l-Bishr Sulaymān — I sent it to you with him. I am doing

even more than you asked me to with [ ] respect to the olive oil, the soap and the other items. Let me know

the prices of silk (shesh) in Fustat, and also the price of silk (lāsīn), because I have a few raṭls that I would like

to send. I was going to write to Abū Zikrī Elḥanān to tell him that I haven't seen

any letters from you, but then your letter to me arrived. I would like you to buy me two uqiyyas of [...].

It should be of good quality. Then send it on. Also buy me a glazed, fired ceramic (vessel) and give it

to Elḥanan. This has to be done, as I have (already) informed you. I spoke to Salāma and rebuked him for coming back (to Alexandria).

He said that when the ships arrive, he'll return to Fustat together with the olive oil, God willing. I send you

my very best regards. Also best regards to my lord Abū Ṣḥaq Barhūn. Tell him about the bales taken delivery of from

the barge (qārib) of Nuʿmān — 21 bales and 9 mid-sized bales (barqalū). 

Recto - right margin
1–10. My lord Abū Ṣḥaq Avraham b. al-Iskandarānī took delivery of 3 bales belonging to Yeshuʿa b. al-Makhmūrī.

11–15. The total comes to 24 bales and 9 barqalūs.

16–22. I have stacked the 9 barqalūs and some of the bales in the warehouse.

23–26. Some remains (unstacked), so I have placed them in the courtyard (arṣa).

27–30. I have taken a receipt (ruqʿa) for 21 bales and 9 barqalūs.

Recto - top margin
1–7. Among these bales, there is one bale labeled in your name and in the name of Abū l-Faraj Yeshuʿa.

8–9. I have informed you of this.

10–13. If you go to Jerusalem, let me know in your letter.

14–18. Convey my greetings to my lord Abū l-Faraj Yeshuʿa and tell him about the bales and his goods





Verso
that I have taken delivery of while they're with me in the warehouse. My lord Abū l-Faraj Wahb sends you his regards. He

will be joining you in Jerusalem. My lord Abū Naṣr Dāwūd b. Naḥūm sends you his regards,

and all our colleagues send you their greetings. Abū l-Ḥajjāj sends you his greetings and

asks that you meet up with Mūsā b. al-Bunnī and speak to him concerning the matter of the 5 dīnārs. He (Abū l-Ḥajjāj) has transferred to me

the debt owed to him by Mūsā, but the latter has not paid me anything. Perhaps you will get it from him.

I bought from my lord Abū l-Bishr Sulaymān al-Qābisī 8 raṭls of silk (_ḥarīr_)

from Sousse for 25 dīnārs. I paid him the price and he allowed me a discount of one-eighth of a dīnār.

They were very good quality dīnārs. He said, "I would like you to have my lord Abū Yaḥya go with me

when I exchange them." Please [ ] go with him when he changes them and see which of them are

clearly broken (_makṣūr bayyin al-kaṣr) and which are of inferior quality. Exchange these for him, and whatever is worth

taking, please pay him for them. Please take care of this. I hope your letter will arrive shortly.

If any dīnārs are left over, see to it that you pay its (entire) price after deducting

the one-eighth dīnār. I would appreciate your going to my master the elder ʿAbd ...  

and asking him whether he has sold the 3 oilskins that were sent to cover the expenses of the two bales. He should add their price

to that of the six (oilskins) belonging to Ḥusayn after you find out what sum he (i.e. ʿAbd … ) has remain­ing with him after paying the expenses/taxes (muʾūn)

so that I can pay out to him (i.e., Ḥusayn) his profit here (in Alexandria). I have informed you of this.

Wednesday 12 Rabīʿ I, al-Mawqif, a pair net 4¼, Ibn Abī l-Surūr, a pair net 4 minus ⅙
Maqṣūr b. Mabara, 2¼, Barakāt, 2, ʿAbdallāh 2⅙ 
Verso - address
To my lord and master Abū Yaḥyā Nahrāy b. Nissīm, may he rest in peace, 
may God prolong his existence and make his wellbeing and happiness eternal
from Mardūk b. Mūsā, may he rest in peace,
may it arrive safely in Fustat, if God wills